- Throughout the game, I've learned that the creation of the game was overall pretty complex and required high-level organization of functions such that the game mechanics can be implemented accordingly and operate functionally.
- To eleboarate further, one of the main challenges was that several functions were overlooked in the beginning during stage 2, and not declared for the implementation in stage 3. As such, there were several functions that needed to be added in the third stage.
- For instance, initially, I had thought that the updateImmunity function only included simple implementations such that it only loops and positions the cell onto the screen, however did not take into account for when the game is outside of the game container and have to remove the DOM element from the game container. In addition to that, the implementation of removing the cell from the array cells was quite complicated as it involved an array and it was difficult to visualize which individual cell was being removed from the array as it exceeds the game container. As such, I had to use a trial and error when working with the value that was being compared to the x-coordinate of the cell in the following line of code in line 193: if(cell.x > WIDTH - 40)
- The second challenge was the implementation of the updateVirus function. This function basically mirrors what updateImmunity does, and includes similar implementation, but in reverse since the virus are moving from the right side of the game container towards the left. It also removes any virus using .splice if it exceeds the game container. Therefore, the biggest challenge I faced in this game creation stems from this function because the virus was moving from the right of the game container, however it exceeded the right of the game container. Thus, I had to include an additional if statement to check if the virus satisfies this condition in the code : else if (virus.x > WIDTH - temp) present in the updateImmunity function. Additionally, to manage this complexity, I had to manually "choose" a value such that the virus does not exceed the right side of the game container throughout the game. This value is 300 and declared in the beginning as "temp". Moreoever, I struggled with finding a more efficient way to solve the problem above because with different temp values, it resulted in less virus being displayed on the screen. Therefore, the only implementation that worked was by checking if the x-coordinate exceeded WIDTH - 300, and if it does, it removes it from the array viruses.
- Another challenge that I faced during this assigment was not taking into account the countdown function implementation. Initially, during stage 2 of the assignment, I declared the countdown variable, but did not implement the function for this. As such, during the implementation of this new function in stage 3, the function could not solely include just a change to the innerHTML display. Therefore, I required the help using ChatGPT to implement several section of this function such as the callback method and the setTimeout function, since I had no prior knowledge on how to change the timer especially after 1 second.
- Lastly, the game revealed more complexity when the updateVirus function was implemented because before the game had begun, the virus elements was already moving from the right to the left when the game container has loaded/when the page is refreshed. One way I managed this problem was through the implementation of th startGame method, and also the countdown method mentioned above. By implementing the startGame function, it specifies an event listener such that when the start button is clicked, the countdown then appears, then calls upon updateGame and changes the display of the DOM element of virus from "none" to "block". It is also worth noting I had an idea that the display should be changed from "none" to "block" so that the virus would not appear before the game begin but had no knowledge on how to implement it properly. Therefore, I utilized ChatGPT for the particular line "$virus.style.display = isVisible ? "block" : "none";" in buildVirus() to implement this idea,
- In summary, while facing challenges in completing the assignment, I've realized that my implementation could be more effective by focusing on creating functions that align with their intended purposes, rather than incorporating extra features. This approach would enhance the code's modifiability within the functions, making it easier to address issues that may arise.
- I've also gained insight into the importance of prioritizing the core functionality of key elements such as the player, cell, virus, and enemy over implementing additional features by breaking down the implementation into manageable parts. In the initial stages of the assignment, I introduced variables such as health and score, only to discover later that the foundational functionality of these elements wasn't as efficient as it could be. Realizing the constraints within the given timeframe, I've learned the significance of being pragmatic in the overall development of this game, particularly in avoiding overlooking the foundational aspects of the game.
- With that being said, the final product of this project aligns with the initial design of the game, albeit with fewer additional features that were introduced in stage 2. This is because in stage 3, I focused on the core functinality of the game such that the game could work efficiently.
